---
id: 324
title: Why Is Conserving Energy Important?
date: 2012-06-06T13:12:00+00:00
author: admin
layout: post
guid: http://plaztikjezuz.com/2012/06/06/why-is-conserving-energy-important/
permalink: /2012/06/06/why-is-conserving-energy-important/
categories:
  - General
---
With the advent of the technology and change in the time, there is a great uplift in the standards of the common man. Man has become the loyal associate of the technology. There is no work which has been left in which man is not taking the assistance of the technology. And the fuel to this technology is energy. Energy is the resource on which all the components of technology depend upon. That is the reason, every day millions of people read, see or listen about something or another related to technology.

As we all know that technology has become an important part of human existence. And we even know that to let this technology keep assisting us, we need fuel which is energy. So indirectly, it means that to let our life be easy and convenient &#8211; we need technology and with retrospect we need energy. Now, you would think what the source of energy is? The resources of energy have been divided into two parts &#8211; renewable and non-renewable resources. The renewable resources are those which can be used again and again. And these are generally natural resources like air, water, sunlight etc. On the other hand, non-renewable are those which can&#8217;t be used again and again, they get exhausted after the usage. Some examples are coal, petroleum etc.

The above passage shows the types and examples of the resources of energy. But due to the extensive usage of all the resources, the time is coming when all these sources get exhausted, especially non-renewable. Their over usage has arise this situation. This has become the question of worry among the scientist of the world. That is the reason that the government of all the different countries have started different types of programs for the conservation of energy. And even, UN has given great emphasis to the convention of energy. There are many programs which are initiated by the different countries. Even every year, the head of countries meet in the summits and discuss about the various components of conservation of energy. In all these meetings, they always try to find out the solution to the problem coming in conversion of energy. Even scientists are trying to find other alternative to the resources of energy which are available to us.

The world is doing all type of efforts for conservation of energy because of one and utmost reason and that is &#8211; energy is the fuel or source on which all the technologies are based on. For instance, we need electricity to work on computers and computers are the pivotal part of any kind of official as well as private work. And this energy is generated by the help of water but due to global warming and water pollution, we all know what is happening to this natural resource. This is the just the smallest instance which I have kept in front to of you. But here are many to be counted and explained. So, conservation of energy is important to live life.