---
id: 427
title: Methods of producing Electricity
date: 2012-11-05T11:05:00+00:00
author: admin
layout: post
guid: http://plaztikjezuz.com/?p=427
permalink: /2012/11/05/methods-of-producing-electricity/
categories:
  - General
---
Along with the wheel, electrical energy is probably one of the greatest discoveries made by man. You can produce electrical energy using fossil fuels, water, wind or nuclear fission. This article will give you an idea on how many ways can be used to create electricity. Electricity can be created by huge turbines. These turbines need to be moved in order to produce energy.

One way in which to move those turbines is to burn fossil fuels. When the turbine’s blades are moved, they will generate vapor. The vapor is generated by heating water using big furnaces. The water is heated burning the fossil fuels: petroleum, coal, natural gas. In this way the in the air there will be huge amounts of CO2 released, and this means pollution for the atmosphere. This is why it is highly important that the methods of producing electricity.

Using water: one can create dams in order to harness the electricity. One popular method to produce electricity is to create dams to restrict the water and use the water to move the turbines. This type of energy will allow us to regulate the air pollution. But the downfall is the changes in the ecosystem as many rivers are being damaged. Of all the renewable energies on the planet, water accounts for almost 90%.

Using wind: wind can be easily converted into energy using wind mills or some wind turbines. In the last few years people have started to work on portable phone chargers that use solar power.

Using nuclear fission: nuclear fission can be used to produce atomic bombs but also energy. The nuclear fission will produce some chain reactions using uranium. This uranium is bombarded by neutrons and this causes it to split and create heat. This heat is used to create vapor and to move the turbines that will ultimately produce energy.

Using bio-waste: the latest technological advancements allow us to produce energy. Bio-gas is mostly used in rural areas in countries like India. They also have the technology that allows them to even use human waste and vegetable waste to generate energy.